# Bulletproof 'system' method

An alternative 'system' method for Ruby, that raises programmer-friendly exceptions
when execution results in an error.

By default, the Ruby 'system' method will return (on Mac OS X):

```ruby
require 'redcarpet'
system('ls')
```
=> true, exit code: 0

```ruby
require 'redcarpet'
system('ls | grep')
```
=> false, exit code: 2

```ruby
require 'redcarpet'
system('foo')
```
=> nil, exit code: 127

In UNIX, when commands are executed at the shell, the above exit codes mean:

- 0:   Success on executing a command
- 2:   Inappropriate use of a recognized command
- 127: Command not found

http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/exitcodes.html

Clicking this number[^fn-sample_footnote] will lead you to a footnote.

However because true, false, and nil are return values of Ruby methods, they are
the ones returned from executing shell scripts from Ruby and propagated to caller
methods. This causes problems, in particular when Ruby silently swallows a non-existing
command by returning nil (a non-error return value).

http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Null-References-The-Billion-Dollar-Mistake-Tony-Hoare
http://robots.thoughtbot.com/if-you-gaze-into-nil-nil-gazes-also-into-you

The Ruby exception hierarchy has exceptions that much better map to the UNIX
error codes - hence this workoaround / wrapper function.
http://rubylearning.com/satishtalim/ruby_exceptions.html


[^fn-sample_footnote]: Handy! Now click the return link to go back.


## License (MIT)

Copyright (c) [2014] [James Abbott]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
